These settings are specific to betaflight. For cleanflight CLI docs go here 
https://github.com/cleanflight/cleanflight/blob/master/docs/Cli.md

The setting shown are the Defaults + possible values.

 
'''set roll_yaw_cam_mix_degrees''' = 0<br />
<i>[0..50]</i><br />
Need feedback about proof of concept feature for mixing of roll and yaw to FPV cam angle. set roll_yaw_cam_mix_degrees = <degrees>
<br />
Here a good preview for this option: [https://youtu.be/gXeaINFpvow FPV camera tilt compensation]
 
'''set enable_fast_pwm''' = OFF<br />
<i>[OFF,ON]</i><br />
This option works together with oneshot125. It is basically a fixed oneshot125 refresh rate. It decouples the motor update speed from the main pid loop. You can for example have board running @2khz but still configure the motor update to be 1khz.
 
'''set gyro_lpf''' = 188HZ '' <br />
<i>[OFF,188HZ,98HZ,42HZ]</i><br />
This is the internal gyro filterinf value. The lower the value the more buffering and delay will be introduced to gyro. Must be set to OFF to enable 2K mode (starting with Version 2.3.0)(starting with Version 2.4 this is automatically set to OFF if 500 looptime is selected in the GUI)''
 (F1 boards must disable accelerometer with set acc_hardware = 1 and in case there are other sensors on board like baro and mag disable those too. set mag_hardware = 1 and set baro_hardware = 1) Disabling any level modes
Hardware lowpass filter for gyro. Allowed values depend on the driver - For example MPU6050 allows 5,10,20,42,98,188,256Hz, while MPU3050 doesn't allow 5Hz. If you have to set gyro lpf below 42Hz generally means the frame is vibrating too much, and that should be fixed first. Values outside of supported range will usually be ignored by drivers, and will configure lpf to default value of 42Hz.

For V2.4.0- also see the set gyro_sync_denom CLI command below.


<u>(starting with Version 2.4 the following hardware is automatically set to NONE  on F1 boards if 500 looptime is selected in the GUI)</U>

'''set acc_hardware''' = 0 (default on) (must be set to 1 for 2K mode on F1 targets)<br />
<i>[0,...,9] (from 2.4.0 [AUTO,NONE,...])</i><br />
Sets the accelerometer 0 means auto detect, 1 means NONE, 2 for ADXL345, 3 for MPU6050 integrated accelerometer, 4 for MMA8452, 5 for BMA280, 6 for LSM303DLHC, 7 for MPU6000, 8 for MPU6500

'''set baro_hardware''' = 0 (default on), 1 = disabled<br />
<i>[0,...,3] (from 2.4.0 [AUTO,NONE,...])</i>

'''set mag_hardware''' = 0 (default on), 1 = disabled<br />
<i>[0,...,3] (from 2.4.0 [AUTO,NONE,...])</i>
 
'''set imu_dcm_kp''' = 2500<br />
<i>[0,...,50000]</i>
 
'''set imu_dcm_ki''' = 0<br />
<i>[0,...,50000]</i>
 
'''set beeper_off_flags''' = 256<br />
<i>[0,...,65535]</i>

beeper_off_flags = sum of each desired beeper turned off
 
 +BEEPER_GYRO_CALIBRATED, 1

 +BEEPER_RX_LOST_LANDING, 2 // Beeps SOS when armed and TX is turned off or signal lost (autolanding/autodisarm)

 +BEEPER_RX_LOST, 4 // Beeps when TX is turned off or signal lost (repeat until TX is okay)

 +BEEPER_DISARMING, 8 // Beep when disarming the board

 +BEEPER_ARMING, 16 // Beep when arming the board

 +BEEPER_ARMING_GPS_FIX, 32 // Beep a special tone when arming the board and GPS has fix

 +BEEPER_BAT_CRIT_LOW, 64 // Longer warning beeps when battery is critically low (repeats)

 +BEEPER_BAT_LOW, 128 // Warning beeps when battery is getting low (repeats)

 +BEEPER_, 256 // when plugged into USB

 +BEEPER_RX_SET, 512 // Beeps when aux channel is set for beep or beep sequence how many satellites has found if GPS enabled

 +BEEPER_DISARM_REPEAT, 1024 // Beeps sounded while stick held in disarm position

 +BEEPER_ACC_CALIBRATION, 2048 // ACC inflight calibration completed confirmation

 +BEEPER_ACC_CALIBRATION_FAIL, 4096 // ACC inflight calibration failed

 +BEEPER_READY_BEEP, 8192 // Ring a tone when GPS is locked and ready

 +BEEPER_MULTI_BEEPS, 16384 // Internal value used by 'beeperConfirmationBeeps()'.

 +BEEPER_ARMED, 32768 // Warning beeps when board is armed (repeats until board is disarmed or throttle is increased)
 
'''set acc_lpf_hz''' = 20<br />
<i>[0,...,200]</i>
Accelerometer low pass filter. Decreasing the value might help with drift in horizon and level modes.
 
'''set soft_gyro_lpf_hz''' = 60<br />
<i>[0,...,255]</i>
BiQuad Low pass filter for gyro. Works as a substitute for gyro_lpf, which is a hardware filter inside the gyro but can also work together with gyro_lpf. value of 60 gives around 20-25db reflection to frequencies above 200hz, which are usually motor/prop frequencies. The value of 60 should be fine on most multirotors. It may be possible that very noisy setups could benefit from lower values.
 
'''set dterm_lpf_hz''' = 0<br />
<i>[0,...,255]</i>
Biquad low pass filter for D in hz. Should not be needed. Especially not from 2.3.4 versions.

'''set acro_plus_factor''' = 0<br />
<i>[0,...,100]</i><br />
Range is 0-100. If set to anything other than 0 roll and pitch rates in the GUI will be ignored. RC rate and RC expo still apply. Warning 100 results in insane rolls and flips that may result in your inability to comprehend. Use at your own risk! 

See the "What is Acro Plus" topic on the Frequently Asked Questions page.

'''set yaw_jump_prevention_limit''' = 200<br />
<i>[80,...,500]</i><br />
Description by Boris here: http://www.rcgroups.com/forums/showpost.php?p=33860926&postcount=16558

<strike>'''set delta_from_gyro''' = ON<br /></strike> 
<strike><i>[OFF,ON]</i><br /></strike>
Description by ctzsnooze here: http://www.rcgroups.com/forums/showpost.php?p=33859758&postcount=16547
Also see "The delta_from_gyro setting and all about the PID Controller D values" on the "Betaflight Deep Dive" Wiki page and the "How does yaw_jump_prevention_limit work ?" in the FAQs.

<u><i>'''New 2.4.0 RC1 CLI commands'''</i></u>

'''set pid_delta_method''' = MEASUREMENT<br />
<i>[MEASUREMENT,ERROR]</i><br />

It's the old _delta_from_gyro = OFF. Boris gave it a proper name.
There is basically a choice between 2 types of delta

'''set airmode_saturation_limit''' = 50

Default value of 50 means that airmode will try to compensate at it's best till 50% saturation. 0 means always maximum stabilisation and 100 always limited. 0 is like version 2.3.3 and 2.3.5 and 100 would act same like pre 2.3.3 and like in 2.3.5.

'''set gyro_sync_denom''' = 1

To get 2khz support set it to 4. denom is always a multiplier to 125us=8khz. 4 means 125*4=500us(2khz). Dont forget to check CPU usage when playing with this value. 
It is highly recommended to use the 'looptime' box in the config GUI. This takes care of all the required settings.

'''set vbat_pid_compensation''' = OFF<br />
<i>[ON,OFF]</i><br />

Uses maximum cell voltage as an offset. Tune your quad with a full lipo and your pids will be scaled up to 25% when voltage gets lower. This requires VBAT connection on FC.

'''set blackbox_device''' = SERIAL<br />
<i>[SERIAL,SPIFLASH,SDCARD]</i><br />

New named values.

'''set pid_controller =''' = MWREWRITE<br />
<i>[MWREWRITE,LUX]</i><br />

New named values. Note: all other PIDCs have been removed.